PDF page 1
Variogram-Based Proper Scoring Rules for Probabilistic
Forecasts of Multivariate Quantities*
MICHAEL SCHEUERER AND THOMAS M. HAMILL
NOAA/Earth System Research Laboratory, Boulder, Colorado
(Manuscript received 19 August 2014, in ﬁnal form 2 December 2014)
ABSTRACT
Proper scoring rules provide a theoretically principled framework for the quantitative assessment of the
predictive performance of probabilistic forecasts. While a wide selection of such scoring rules for univariate
quantities exists, there are only few scoring rules for multivariate quantities, and many of them require that
forecasts are given in the form of a probability density function. The energy score, a multivariate general-
ization of the continuous ranked probability score, is the only commonly used score that is applicable in the
important case of ensemble forecasts, where the multivariate predictive distribution is represented by a ﬁnite
sample. Unfortunately, its ability to detect incorrectly speciﬁed correlations between the components of the
multivariate quantity is somewhat limited. In this paper the authors present an alternative class of proper
scoring rules based on the geostatistical concept of variograms. The sensitivity of these variogram-based
scoring rules to incorrectly predicted means, variances, and correlations is studied in a number of examples
with simulated observations and forecasts; they are shown to be distinctly more discriminative with respect to
the correlation structure. This conclusion is conﬁrmed in a case study with postprocessed wind speed forecasts
at ﬁve wind park locations in Colorado.
1. Introduction
During the last two decades a paradigm shift has oc-
curred in the practice of numerical weather prediction
(NWP). To account for the various sources of uncertainty
in the NWP model output, ensemble prediction systems
were developed and have now become state of the art in
meteorological forecasting ( Buizza et al. 2005 ; Lewis
2005; Leutbecher and Palmer 2008 ). Those ensemble
forecasts aim to represent the range of possible outcomes,
and probabilistic statements like the probability of ex-
ceeding a certain amount of precipitation can be derived
from them and help making informed decisions.
Along with the availability of probabilistic forecasts
comes the need for both diagnostic and quantitative
methods to assess the quality of those forecasts and to
compare the performance of competing forecasters. A
probabilistic forecast should be calibrated (i.e., statisti-
cally consistent with the values that materialize) and sharp
(i.e., very speciﬁc about the anticipated weather;Gneiting
et al. 2007). Sharpness can be assessed via numerical and
graphical summaries of the width of the prediction in-
tervals that come with a predictive probability distribu-
tion. The notion of calibration is more complex, and
different types of calibration have been established.
Marginal calibration measures the similarity of the ag-
gregated predictive distribution and the climatological
distribution of the predictand, and can be checked by
comparing the average predictive cumulative distribution
function (CDF) with the empirical CDF of the observa-
tions (Gneiting et al. 2007). Probabilistic calibration con-
cerns the dynamical aspects of probabilistic forecasts and
can be assessed by studying veriﬁcation rank histograms
(Anderson 1996; Hamill and Colucci 1997; Hamill 2001).
To make a quantitative comparison of different
forecast methods, summary measures of their predictive
performance are required. Those measures should take
both calibration and sharpness into account. To this
end, scoring rules have been proposed which assign
a numerical score S(F, y) to each pair ( F, y) where F is
the CDF of the predictive distribution and y is the
* Supplemental information related to this paper is available at
the Journals Online website: http://dx.doi.org/10.1175/MWR-D-
14-00269.s1.
Corresponding author address: Michael Scheuerer, NOAA/
ESRL, Physical Sciences Division 325 Broadway, R/PSD1, Boul-
der, CO 80305.
E-mail: michael.scheuerer@noaa.gov
APRIL 2015 S C H E U E R E R A N D H A M I L L 1321
DOI: 10.1175/MWR-D-14-00269.1
PDF page 2
realized value. If we take scoring rules to be negatively
oriented, S(F, y) can be viewed as a penalty that the
forecasters wish to minimize. A crucial property that
one should always require from a scoring rule is that it is
proper, which is formally deﬁned by the requirement
EG S(G, Y) # EG S(F, Y) " F, G , (1)
where EG S(F, Y) denotes the expected score of the
forecast CDF F when the verifying observations y are
realizations of a random variable Y with CDF G, and "
means ‘‘for all.’’ The score is strictly proper if the
equality holds only if F 5 G (Gneiting and Raftery
2007). Using only proper scoring rules is important in
practice because the above inequality implies that
a forecaster who knows the true distribution G has no
incentive to predict any F 6¼ G, and is encouraged to
quote her true belief. It has been demonstrated that the
use of improper scores can lead to misguided inferences
about predictive performance ( Gneiting 2011).
The notions and methods mentioned above refer to
probabilistic forecasts of univariate quantities. In some
applications, however, multivariate quantities are of
interest where multivariate can either refer to several
different weather variables, or to a single variable con-
sidered at different locations in space or points in time
simultaneously. River basin streamﬂow forecasts, for
example, rely heavily on the meteorological inputs, and
the runoff of mountain streams in spring season depends
on both temperature (because of its impact on the
amount of meltwater) and precipitation amounts. It is
therefore important to know if an observed temperature
above the predictive mean is likely to be associated with
observed precipitation amounts above the predictive
mean. If there is a positive or negative association be-
tween those two variables it should be reﬂected by the
joint probabilistic forecast. Moreover, simultaneous
consideration of all locations in the river basin and
several lead times may be required. A recent article by
Wilks (2014) considers probabilistic forecasting of heat
waves, which requires the simultaneous study of mini-
mum temperature and dewpoint temperature at two
consecutive days, and Feldmann et al. (2015) study sta-
tistical postprocessing methods that yield calibrated
temperature forecasts simultaneously at several loca-
tions. A number of multivariate generalizations of the
veriﬁcation rank histogram have been proposed ( Smith
and Hansen 2004 ; Wilks 2004 ; Gneiting et al. 2008 ;
Thorarinsdottir et al. 2015 ; Ziegel and Gneiting 2014 )
that are sensitive to misrepresentations of both univar-
iate characteristics and correlations between the differ-
ent components of the multivariate quantity under
consideration.
As far as proper scoring rules are concerned, the
forecast veriﬁcation toolbox is still rather limited. On
the one hand there is the energy score (ES) and gener-
alizations of it ( Gneiting and Raftery 2007 ):
Sen(F, y) 5 EF kX 2 yk 2 1
2 EF kX 2 X0k,
where X and X0 are independent random vectors that
are distributed according to the multivariate CDF F and
k/C1k is the Euclidean norm. The energy score has the
appealing property that it generalizes the univariate
continuous ranked probability score (CRPS; Hersbach
2000) and is readily applicable also to ensemble fore-
casts. It has been pointed out, however, that this score is
often not sufﬁciently sensitive to misspeciﬁcations of the
correlations between the different components ( Pinson
and Girard 2012 ; Pinson and Tastu 2013 ). This is a big
drawback since unlike the means and variances those
correlations cannot be studied by applying univariate
scores to the individual components. On the other hand,
t h e r ea r es c o r i n gr u l e s[ e . g . ,t h el o g a r i t h m i cs c o r eb y
Roulston and Smith (2002) , applied to a multivariate
probability density function] that are more sensitive to
misspeciﬁed correlations, but require that the forecast is
given in terms of a predictive density, and are thus not
applicable in the important case of ensemble forecasts.
Dawid and Sebastiani (1999)proposed some multivariate
scoring rules that depend only on the mean vectormF and
t h ec o v a r i a n c em a t r i xSF of the predictive distributionF.A
particularly appealing example is the scoring rule [hereaf-
ter referred to as the Dawid–Sebastiani score (DSS)]:
SDS(F, y) 5 log detSF 1 (y 2 mF )0S21
F (y 2 mF ).
It is equivalent to the logarithmic score for multivariate
Gaussian predictive distributions and remains a proper
(though not strictly proper) score relative to the larger
class probability distributions for which the second
moments of all components are ﬁnite ( Gneiting and
Raftery 2007). In principle this score could be applied to
empirical versions of mF and SF that were estimated
from an ensemble, but unless the sample size is much
larger than the dimension of the multivariate quantity,
sampling errors can have disastrous effects on the cal-
culation of detSF and S21
F , and render this score useless
in the context of ensemble forecasting (see e.g., Table 2
in Feldmann et al. 2015 ). Accordingly, in section 2 we
propose a new, proper, multivariate score that is based
on pairwise differences between all components of the
multivariate quantity and that we hypothesize is more
readily usable for ensemble forecast diagnosis. Some
simulation examples are presented in section 3 . These
1322 MONTHLY WEATHER REVIEW V OLUME 143
PDF page 3
will demonstrate that this new score is sensitive to mis-
speciﬁed correlations between the different components,
and that it is useful for ensemble forecast diagnosis even
when the number of ensemble members is moderate. An
application of the new score in the context of probabilistic
wind speed forecasting at several locations in Colorado
simultaneously is presented in section 4,b e f o r ew ec o n -
clude with a short discussion in section 5.
2. A scoring rule based on pairwise differences
The basic idea of the class of multivariate scoring rules
proposed in the following is to consider pairwise dif-
ferences of the components of the multivariate quantity
of interest. This has already been suggested in the con-
text of rank histograms (e.g., Fig. 5 in Hamill 2001) and
recently been utilized by Feldmann et al. (2015) in a di-
agnostic plot to check the adequacy of a statistical model
for spatial correlations. Denote by y the vector of ob-
servations, by yi its ith component, and assume that y is
a realization of the random vector Y. Adopting the
concept of a variogram (also referred to as structure
function) from geostatistics we study the quantity
g2(i, j) 5 1
2EjYi 2 Yjj2 ,
where E denotes the expectation under the (multivari-
ate) distribution of Y, which is assumed to have ﬁnite
second moments. Denoting mi :5 E(Yi), s2
i :5 var(Yi)
and rij :5 corr(Yi, Yj) we have
EjYi 2 Yjj2 5 (mi 2 mj)2 1 (s2
i 2 2sisjrij 1 s2
j ) , (2)
which shows that g2 depends not only on the ﬁrst and
second moments of the individual components, but also
on their correlations. More generally, one can consider
variograms of order p . 0:
gp(i, j) 5 1
2EjYi 2 Yjjp .
The special cases p 5 1a n d p 5 0:5 are known as
madogram and rodogram, respectively ( Bruno and
Raspa 1989; Emery 2005). Variograms of order p can be
deﬁned for any multivariate distribution for which thepth
absolute moments exist. For p 6¼ 2 and non-Gaussian
distributions they can usually not be expressed as simple
functions of the means, variances, and correlations of Yi
and Yj, but they still depend on all of those quantities, and
are therefore potentially useful for comparing the multi-
variate dependence structure of forecasts and observa-
tions. While condensing the information about the
dependence of Yi and Yj into a single number gp(i, j)
implies a certain loss of information, we shall see that
utilizing these quantities in the framework of scoring
rules results in a performance measure that is sensitive to
various types of miscalibration of multivariate forecasts.
For a given d-variate observation vector y and forecast
distribution F we deﬁne the variogram score of order p
(VS-p):
Sgp
(F, y) 5 /C229
d
i,j51
wij(jyi 2 yjjp 2 EF jXi 2 Xjjp)2 , (3)
where Xi and Xj are the ith and the jth component of
a random vector X that is distributed according to F, and
wij are nonnegative weights. The score Sgp measures the
dissimilarity between approximations of the variograms
of order p of observations and forecasts over all pairs of
components of the quantity of interest. For the obser-
vations, our best guess of EjYi 2 Yjjp is simply the
powered absolute difference of yi and yj. When the
forecast distribution is given in the form of an ensemble
x(1), ... , x(m), the forecast variogram EF jXi 2 Xjjp can be
approximated by
EF jXi 2 Xjjp ’ 1
m /C229
m
k51
jx(k)
i 2 x(k)
j jp, i, j 5 1, ... , d .
(4)
Pairs of squared variogram differences can be empha-
sized or downweighted through the choice of the
weights. This might be motivated by a subjective de-
cision of an expert to put focus on certain component
combinations. In a spatial context, for example, the
possibility of emphasizing differences corresponding to
pairs of locations that are either close by or a certain
distance apart is related to the idea of scale-dependent
veriﬁcation (e.g., Jung and Leutbecher 2008 ). Down-
weighting certain pairs can also help mitigating the ef-
fects of sampling error. To see this, assume for simplicity
that the random vector Y follows a multivariate
Gaussian distribution with identical mean in all com-
ponents. Deﬁning s2
ij :5 s2
i 2 2sisjrij 1 s2
j we then have
EjYi 2 Yjj1 5
ﬃﬃﬃﬃ
2
p
r
sij , var jYi 2 Yjj1 5
/C18
1 2 2
p
/C19
s2
ij
EjYi 2 Yjj2 5 s2
ij , var jYi 2 Yjj2 5 2s4
ij .
This shows that in both cases, both magnitude and var-
iability of pairs of weakly correlated components are
higher than for strongly correlated components. The
former would therefore dominate the VS- p on the one
hand, and introduce more variability on the other hand,
which implies that downweighting pairs that are ex-
pected to have relatively weak correlations can beneﬁt
APRIL 2015 S C H E U E R E R A N D H A M I L L 1323
PDF page 4
the signal-to-noise ratio. In situations where there is
some notion of distance between the ith and jth com-
ponent (e.g., time lag as in the examples in section 3 or
spatial distance as in section 4 ), correlations at short
distances are typically stronger than those at longer
distances. As a pragmatic ad hoc choice of the weights
we then suggest to let them be proportional to the in-
verse distances between the corresponding components.
This idea of downweighting certain pairs of components
is conceptually similar to covariance localization in data
assimilation ( Houtekamer and Mitchell 2001 ; Hamill
et al. 2001 ), where elements in the empirical covariance
matrix that correspond to conceivably weakly or un-
correlated components are tapered down toward zero to
reduce the effects of sampling error. When the multi-
variate quantity consists of variables of different type
(e.g., temperature, pressure, and relative humidity),
there is no obvious notion of distance and even the
deﬁnition of Sgp seems doubtful as we would be sub-
tracting quantities with potentially different units. In
that situation, one could apply Sgp to standardized
components:
~yi :5 yi 2 m(cl)
i
s(cl)
i
, ~Xi :5 Xi 2 m(cl)
i
s(cl)
i
, i 5 1, ... , d ,
where m(cl)
i and s(cl)
i are the climatological mean and
variance of the variables, respectively. This approach has
been suggested in multivariate geostatistics in the context
of variance-based cross variograms, which are the equiv-
alent of our score in the situation where components can
correspond to different variables. In the geostatistical
context it can be justiﬁed by the fact that predictors de-
rived from variance-based cross variograms do not de-
pend on the particular unit, and so the user should work
with standardized variables in order to minimize the ef-
f e c t so fs a m p l i n ge r r o r(Cressie and Wikle 1998). In some
applications there might be better, more problem-speciﬁc
meteorological concepts to transform weather variables of
different type in a way that brings them all to a scale in
which they can be compared, one example being the total-
energy norm (e.g., Hamill et al. 2003).
We now show thatSgp is proper relative to the class of the
probability distributions for which the (2p)th moments of
all components are ﬁnite. To see this, consider ﬁrst a single
pair (i, j). For any such pair, the mean of the random var-
iable Z d jYi 2 Yjjp minimizes the expected squared de-
viation of Z from any ﬁxed numbera 2 R,t h a ti s ,
E[Z 2 E(Z)]2 # E(Z 2 a)2 .
This means that the inequality in (1) holds separately for
any pair (i, j), but then it also holds for the weighted sum
over all pairs, for any choice of nonnegative weights.
Note, however, that the VS- p is not strictly proper be-
cause it only depends on the pth absolute moment of the
distribution of component differences, and can there-
fore not distinguish between distributions of Z that have
the same pth absolute moment but different higher
moments. Moreover, large-scale random errors that are
the same for all components cancel out when differences
are considered; likewise, a bias that is the same for all
components will go undetected. The simulation study in
section 3 shows, however, that for suitable choices of p
the VS- p is quite sensitive to misspeciﬁcations of the
correlation structure of Y. More importantly, this is still
true when EF jXi 2 Xjjp has to be estimated as in (4)
from an ensemble that represents the predictive distri-
bution F. This approximation introduces quite a bit of
additional sampling error, but the effects on the score’s
propriety and discrimination ability will be shown to be
much less severe as for the Dawid–Sebastiani score. This
makes the VS- p a favorable score in the context of en-
semble forecasting, on which we focus in the rest of this
paper.
Before comparing it with the ES and DSS in simula-
tions, we shall mention that the VS- p can be viewed as
a special case of a much larger class of scoring rules.
Consider the mapping gp, ~w: Rd / Rd2
deﬁned by
[gp, ~w(y)]ij 5 ~wijjyi 2 yjjp, i, j 5 1, ... , d ,
where ~w is the weight vector of the transformation gp, ~w.
Choosing ~wij 5 ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃwij
p , we can rewrite the VS-p from (3) as
Sgp
(F, y) 5 /C229
d
i,j51
f[gp, ~w(y)]ij 2 EF [gp, ~w(X)]ijg2 ,
which shows that the VS- p of a single, multivariate
forecast is (up to the factor 1/ d2) the same as the mean
squared error (MSE) over the d2 components of the
transformed forecast vector. The generalization of the
VS-p is now obvious: instead of the MSE, we can apply
any other univariate scoring rule to the components of
gp, ~w(X)a n dgp, ~w(y), and take the mean over the resultingd2
values as an alternative sc ore for our multivariate
quantity. Or, we can apply the ES to the d2-variate
vectors gp, ~w(X) and gp, ~w(y), rather than to X and y di-
rectly. These generalizations will also be studied in the
subsequent section.
3. Simulation study
We compare the energy score, the Dawid–Sebastiani
score, and the variogram score of order p 5 0:5, 1, and 2,
using inverse distance weights as described above. In all
1324 MONTHLY WEATHER REVIEW V OLUME 143
PDF page 5
experiments we generate n 5 5000 observation vectors
of dimension d, and an m-member ensemble of forecast
vectors of the same dimension with both correct and
misspeciﬁed means, variances, or correlations. To un-
derstand the impact of representing the predictive dis-
tribution by an ensemble on the different scores, we
consider both small ( m 5 20) and medium-sized
(m 5 100) ensembles. While a formal deﬁnition of be-
ing proper exists and allows one to check this property
mathematically, there does not seem to be a commonly
accepted measure of a scoring rule’s ability to discrimi-
nate between calibrated and uncalibrated forecasts. This
is an important characteristic though that determines its
utility for forecast veriﬁcation in practice. In this simu-
lation study, we try to get some sense of the discrimi-
nation ability of the various scores by repeating each
experiment 10 times and visualizing the respective out-
comes by boxplots. Even though the scores are averaged
over 5000 cases, they still vary from one experiment to
another. If the group of average scores obtained with
calibrated forecasts is clearly separated from the one
obtained with uncalibrated forecasts, we will interpret
this as good discrimination ability of the scoring rule that
was utilized. Conversely, if there is a strong overlap of
the ranges of outcomes obtained with calibrated and
uncalibrated forecasts, we will conclude that the scoring
rule that produced these outcomes cannot reliably de-
tect this particular type of miscalibration.
a. Miscalibrated marginal distributions
Although we contend that multivariate veriﬁcation
should focus on the correlations between the different
components (predictive means and variances can be com-
pared in a ﬁrst step with univariate veriﬁcation techniques),
we shall start with a ﬁrst experiment that compares the
different scores with respect to their ability to detect biases
and over- or underdispersion of the forecasts. We already
noted that the VS-p is unable to detect a bias that is the
same for all components, but we can consider a situation
where this simple type of bias has been removed while an
erroneous trend is present in the forecast means. Speciﬁ-
cally, let the observation vectors be realizations of
a Gaussian random vectorY of dimensiond 5 5w i t hz e r o
mean, unit variance, and correlation function:
corr(Yi, Yj) 5 exp
/C18
2ji 2 jj
r
/C19
, i, j 5 1, ... , d . (5)
In this experiment we take r 5 3. If we associate each
component with a time point, Y can be viewed as a short,
stationary autoregressive AR(1) process. Note that the
deﬁnitions of all scores studied here neither exploit nor
rely on this property of stationarity. Moreover, since the
scores are calculated separately for each of the 5000
cases and averaged only afterward, they can also be
applied in situations where the distribution of the ob-
servation vector differs from one case to another. The
possibility of exploiting preliminary knowledge about
the multivariate dependence structure is further dis-
cussed in the second example below. To compare the
sensitivity of the different scores to misspeciﬁcations of
means and variances, we generate forecasts with the
same exponential correlation function as above and
1) correct variances but biased means: mF 5 (20:5,
20:25, 0; 0:25, 0:5)0;
2) correct means and variances;
3) correct means but too large variances: s2
i 5 1:5,
i 5 1, ... , 5; and
4) correct means but too small variances: s2
i 5 0:6667,
i 5 1, ... ,5 .
The corresponding boxplots are shown in Fig. 1 .W e
note ﬁrst of all that the inﬂuence of ensemble size is rather
different from one score to another. For the ES, there is
hardly any difference betweenm 5 20 with m 5 100. This
can be an advantage if only an ensemble of very small size
is available, but it also suggests that the ES cannot distin-
guish a very good representation of the predictive distri-
bution F from a very sparse one. This is different for the
VS-p values, which consistently improve with increasing
ensemble size, thus showing that the ﬁnite sample repre-
sentation of F does have a noticeable effect on the score.
This sampling effect, however, does not change the qual-
itative conclusions about the predictive performance of the
different forecasts (this is also true for the examples con-
sidered below). A really substantial change of the scores
due to the different ﬁnite representations of the predictive
distribution can be observed with the DSS (note the dif-
ferent scales form 5 20 and m 5 100). The approximation
of mF and SF by empirical means and covariances esti-
mated from the small ensemble is so poor that the resulting
scores lead to false conclusions about predictive perfor-
mance, favoring the overdispersive ensemble over the
calibrated one. For the larger ensemble, this score bias
due to insufﬁcient representation of F plays a smaller
role, and the DSS discriminates well between the correct
and uncalibrated forecasts. The ES is very effective in
detecting the erroneous linear trend corresponding to the
forecasts simulated according to 1), but the separation
between the calibrated and over/underdispersive fore-
casts is less distinct. Among the different VS- p studied
here, the VS- p with p 5 0:5 has clearly the best discrim-
ination ability. It identiﬁes the miscalibration of the mean
less clearly than the ES, but is more effective in detecting
over and underdispersiveness. The VS- p with p 5 1s t i l l
detects all types of miscalibration reasonably well. It is
APRIL 2015 S C H E U E R E R A N D H A M I L L 1325
PDF page 6
noticeable, however, that with increasing p the random
variations between scores obtained with identical setups
become larger and larger and blur the systematic differ-
ences between calibrated and uncalibrated forecasts.
Before we turn to the genuinely multivariate aspects we
would like to recall that the VS-p is not strictly proper. In
the present situation, for example, the effects of an er-
roneous trend and underdispersion can cancel out [for
p 5 2 this can be seen directly from (2)]. We therefore
emphasize again that an analysis of the marginal distri-
butions by means of univariate scores should precede the
study of multivariate properties.
b. Misspeciﬁed correlation strength
In our second experiment we focus on the correlation
structure of the multivariate quantity under consideration.
We study the ability of the different scores to detect whether
the correlations between the different components of the
forecast vectors are too weak, adequate, or too strong
compared to the corresponding correlations of the obser-
vation vectors. Moreover, we study the effect of increasing
the dimension fromd 5 5t o d 5 15 on the different scores.
In both cases, we consider again a zero mean, unit variance
AR(1) process with correlation function given in(5).F o rt h e
observation vectors, we chooser 5 3 as before and compare
ensemble forecasts simulated with the same correlation
model, butr 5 2, r 5 3, and r 5 4:5. The boxplots inFig. 2
for the ES conﬁrm the conclusion of Pinson and Tastu
(2013) that the ES can hardly discriminate multivariate
forecasts that differ only with respect to their correlations
between individual components. For the DSS the conclu-
sion is as in the ﬁrst experiment. It discriminates well be-
tween calibrated and uncalibrated forecasts if the ensemble
that represents the predictive distribution is sufﬁciently
large. A small ensemble, however, results in an inaccurate
approximation ofmF and SF , and the corresponding DSS
leads to misguided inference. This representation issue is
much less severe for the VS-p,a n df o rp 5 0:5a n dp 5 1i t
discriminates well between correct and incorrect correlation
strengths. Forp 5 2 the discrimination ability is still better
than for the ES but overall not very satisfactory with ran-
dom differences between identical setups having the same
magnitude as systematic score differences due to mis-
calibration. Increasing the dimension fromd 5 5t o d 5 15
has a slightly negative effect on the discrimination ability of
the VS-p. This may be somewhat surprising since a larger
dimension entails more data that are used for the calculation
of Sgp . However, since our deﬁnition of the VS-p in (3) does
not make any assumption (e.g., stationarity in a time series
or spatial context) about the correlation structure of fore-
casts and observations, increasing the number of summands
in (3) doesnot lead to an averaging of sampling error. If one
was absolutely sure that some additional structural as-
sumption is justiﬁed [i.e., that the set of all pairs (i, j)c a nb e
represented as a union of disjoint subsets I1, ... , IN such
that the component differences corresponding to the pairs in
each subset have the samepth absolute moment], one could
replace deﬁnition(3) by
Sgp
(F, y): 5 /C229
N
k51
wk
"
/C229
(i,j)2Ik
jyi 2 yjjp 2 /C229
(i,j)2Ik
EF jXi 2 Xjjp
#2
.
This way, additional structural information could be
exploited and an increase of d would then likely reduce
sampling error and improve the discrimination ability of
the score. In the present example, the simulated AR(1)
process is stationary and proceeding as described above
with Ik :5 [(i, j): ji 2 jj 5 k] would be justiﬁed. In general,
however, such information is not available, and while
simplifying assumptions are common and appropriate in
FIG. 1. (from left to right) Energy, Dawid–Sebastiani, and variogram scores of order p 5 0.5, 1, and 2 for ensemble size m 5 20 and
m 5 100. The boxplots corresponding to mean-biased, correct, over-, and underdispersive forecasts are cornﬂower blue, violet, light blue,
and dark blue, respectively. The boxes cover the ﬁrst to third quartile of the 10 outcomes, the black line shows the median, and the
whiskers extend to the data extremes.
1326 MONTHLY WEATHER REVIEW V OLUME 143
PDF page 7
statistical modeling, we contend that veriﬁcation methods
should avoid unwarranted preliminary assumptions
about forecasts and observations as far as possible. We
therefore recommend retaining the deﬁnition in(3),e v e n
though it is less favorable with respect to the VS- p’s dis-
crimination ability. The fact that the discrimination
ability in the present example even gets slightly worse
from d 5 5t o d 5 15 can probably be explained by the
fact that the fraction of pairs of components in Sgp (F, y)
with rather weak correlations increases, and thus more
variability is introduced into the calculation of the score.
c. Misspeciﬁed correlation model
In the third experiment, we vary the entire correlation
model rather than just the correlation strength. We now
consider only the case d 5 15 and simulate observations
with zero mean, unit variance, and correlation function:
(i) corr( Yi, Yj) 5
/C18
1 1 ji 2 jj
3
/C19 21
, and
(ii) corr( Yi, Yj)
5 exp
/C18
2ji 2 jj
4
/C19/C20
0:75 1 0:25 cos
/C18 ji 2 jjp
2
/C19/C21
.
Both of them yield correlations at lag 1 that are very
similar to the exponential model in (5) with r 5 3. Model
(i), however, has much stronger correlations at larger
lags, and model (ii) has a periodic component that
makes it oscillate around this exponential reference
model. Can the VS- p detect those differences between
the model in (5) and models (i) and (ii), respectively,
even though our proposed weighting scheme down-
weights larger lags? Figure 3 conﬁrms many of the
conclusions from the preceding experiment. The ES
again lacks sensitivity to misspeciﬁcations of the corre-
lation structure while the VS- p distinguishes much bet-
ter between the correct and the incorrect correlation
model. Again, however, the discrimination ability de-
pends on p, with smaller values yielding signiﬁcantly
better results. The DSS has similar issues in this example
as in those discussed above. Their magnitude drops
dramatically when passing from 20 to 100 ensemble
members, although the underlying multivariate distri-
bution is the same. In the case where the observations
have long-range dependence, both ensemble sizes are
insufﬁcient to reduce this score’s representation bias
enough to yield the proper ranking between correct and
incorrect forecasts. In the example with the oscillating
correlation model, the DSS yields the correct ranking
and separates the two cases very well. However, it may
well be that this is simply an example where the bias due
to the ﬁnite representation of the predictive distribution
favors the correct ranking by chance.
d. Misspeciﬁed generating process
When we introduced the VS- p in section 2 ,w ee m -
phasized that this family of scoring rules is proper, but not
strictly proper. It is based only on the pth absolute mo-
ment of differences between all pairs of components. It
is clear that biases that are the same for all components
cancel out. It is also clear that certain combinations of
FIG.2 .A si n Fig. 1, but for forecasts with too weak (light blue), adequate (violet), and too strong (dark blue) correlations compared to the
observations for (top) d 5 5 and (bottom) d 5 15.
APRIL 2015 S C H E U E R E R A N D H A M I L L 1327
PDF page 8
misspeciﬁcations (e.g., overestimation of correlation
strength and overestimation of marginal variances) can
partially or fully cancel out. But even if it has been as-
sured that the marginal distributions are calibrated, the
pth absolute moment of component differences does in
general not fully characterize the multivariate dependence.
How good is the VS-p in distinguishing forecasts that are
entirely correct (i.e., have been generated by the same
process as the observations) from forecasts that have
correct means, variances,and correlations, but have been
generated by a completely different mechanism? It can
be expected that the answer depends on the particular
generating process, and we are careful to make general
claims as to this issue. Yet it is instructive to study at least
one such example. We simulate observations as follows:
1) Draw a random number y from a Poisson distribution
with parameter l 5 8.
2) Draw y locations t1, ... , ty from a uniform distribu-
tion on the interval [0, 16].
3) Denoting by ( /C1 )1 the maximum of 0 and the function
in brackets, deﬁne
yt 5
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
15
8
r
/C229
y
i51
[1 2 (t 2 ti)2]1, t 5 1, ... , 15 . (6)
One can think of t1, ... , ty as storm centers that have an
inﬂuence on all locations within a radius of one unit,
expressed by the inﬂuence function (1 2 x2)1. The dif-
ferent local storms are then added up to the ﬁnal out-
come. This process is a special case of a so-called shot
noise process. Using results from Matérn (1986, chapter
3.3), one can show that with the speciﬁc choices made
above y is a sample of a stationary time series with meanﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
5/3
p
, variance 1, and correlation function:
corr(Yi, Yj) 5
 
1 1 3ji 2 jj
2 1 ji 2 jj2
4
!/C18
1 2 ji 2 jj
2
/C19 3
1
.
We now compare forecasts that were generated in the
same way as this shot noise observation process with
forecasts that have the same means, variances, and
correlations, but were simulated from a multivariate
Gaussian distribution. An illustration of one sample path,
respectively, on the full interval [1, 15] is provided
in the supplemental material to this paper. The results of
this comparison are depicted in Fig. 4. A few conclusions
are very consistent with what we already observed be-
fore. The discrimination ability of the ES is rather poor,
and the DSS favors the incorrect model as a result of
insufﬁcient approximation of mF and SF , even in the
case where m 5 100. Recall that the DSS depends on the
predictive distribution only through its component
means and variances, and intercomponent correlations,
so for a perfect approximation of mF and SF we would
expect the DSS to be indifferent toward the particular
forecast generation process. The same is true for the
VS-2, while the effect of the generation process on the
VS-1 and VS-0.5 is not quite as obvious. For the ﬁrst
time, we observe problems related to the ﬁnite sample
representation of the predictive distribution also with
FIG.3 .A si n Fig. 1, but for forecasts with (left violet boxplots) correct and (right dark blue boxplots) incorrect correlation structure
where the correct correlation function is that using (top) model (i) or (bottom) model (ii) in section 3c ; and the incorrect correlation
function is, in both cases, the exponential model in (5) with r 5 3.
1328 MONTHLY WEATHER REVIEW V OLUME 143
PDF page 9
the VS-2 and VS-1. The good discrimination ability of
the VS-0.5 may be based on several factors. On the one
hand, the 0.5th absolute moment of differences seems
to be very informative about the generating process.
It is not clear though, whether this is speciﬁc to the
present example or whether this is true in general. On
the other hand, we have already observed that the
choice p 5 0:5 entails less sampling variability compared
to larger values, and this likely contributes to the favor-
able performance of the VS-0.5 in the present example
as well.
e. Sensitivity of the variogram score of order p to the
choice of weights
So far, we have always chosen the weights in (3)
proportional to the inverse distance between the com-
ponents. We have argued in section 2 that such a choice
is reasonable whenever there is some natural notion
of distance, and correlations between components
are expected to decrease with this distance. Yet, this
choice is quite ad hoc, and it is natural to ask how
sensitive the discrimination ability of the VS- p is with
regard to the choice of weights, and if other choices
yield a similar or even better performance. To answer
this question, we repeat the ﬁrst two experiments, this
time considering only the case where d 5 15 and
m 5 20. We restrict our attention to the VS-0.5, but
study two alternative weighting schemes: no weighting
at all (i.e., wij [ 1) and a kind of localization scheme
where wij 5 [1 2 (ji 2 jj/3)2]1 (i.e., pairs of components
more than three units apart are not considered at all). The
results in Fig. 5 are as one might have expected. Mis-
specifying the range parameter in our exponential cor-
relation model in (5) affects correlations between all
pairs of components. As pointed out in section 2 , close
by, strongly correlated components have a more favor-
able signal to noise ratio, and so it is not surprising that
the localization weighting scheme has the best, and the
unweighted VS-0.5 has the worst discrimination ability.
The same conclusion holds in the experiment where the
correlation function of the observations has a periodic
component. Even at short lags, this correlation functions
differs quite strongly from the simple exponential
model, and focusing on close-by component pairs,
therefore, beneﬁts the score’s discrimination ability.
Differences between the long-range correlation model
and the exponential model, on the contrary, are more
noticeable for pairs of components that are farther
apart, and hence the unweighted VS-0.5 performs best.
Overall, we conclude that if prior knowledge about cor-
relations is available, some sort of localization scheme
with appropriately chosen cutoff radius should be used. In
the absence of such knowledge, the inverse distance
weighting scheme seems to be a good compromise. We
FIG.4 .A si n Fig. 1, but for forecasts of (left violet boxplots) correct (shot noise) type and (right dark blue boxplots) incorrect (Gaussian)
process type.
FIG. 5. VS-0.5 for three different component weights—unweighted, inverse distance, and localized—for the case where d 5 15 and
m 5 20. The three plots on the left are for the correlation strength experiment with too weak, adequate, and too strong correlations being
represented by light blue, violet, and dark blue boxplots, respectively, and those on the right are for the correlation model experiment with
correct forecasts being represented by violet and incorrect forecasts being represented by dark blue boxplots.
APRIL 2015 S C H E U E R E R A N D H A M I L L 1329
PDF page 10
ﬁnally note that even the unweighted score permits better
identiﬁcation of misspeciﬁed dependence structures than
the ES.
f. Generalizations of the variogram score of order p
At the end of section 2 , we pointed out that the VS- p
deﬁned in (3) can be viewed as a special case of
a larger class of scoring rules which transforms both
forecast and observation vectors to d2-dimensional
vectors of weighted, powered, absolute differences
between the components of the original vectors. Here,
we ﬁx p 5 0:5 and deﬁne the weight vector ~w of the
transformation g0:5, ~w through ~wij 5 1/
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
ji 2 jj
p
.W i t h
these choices, the VS-0 .5 with inverse distance
weights is (up to a constant factor) the same as the
MSE of the componentwise means of the transformed
forecasts with respect to the transformed observa-
tions. As alternative scores, we consider the mean
absolute error (MAE) of the componentwise medians
of the transformed forecasts, the mean continuous
ranked probability score (MCRPS) over all compo-
nents of the transformed forecasts, and the ES of the
vector of transformed forecast. Figure 6 shows results
for the setting of our correlation model experiment in
section 3c with d 5 15 and m 5 20, where the obser-
vation is generated according to section 3c model (i)
and (ii), respectively, and the scores are used to dis-
tinguish correct forecasts from those that erroneously
use an exponential correlat ion model. The main point
to note is that all scores are able to distinguish the
correct from the incorrect correlation model, showing
that it is really the transformation g0:5, ~w,r a t h e rt h a n
the particular score applied to the transformed vec-
tors, that is crucial for detecting misspeciﬁed de-
pendence structures. With the MAE and MCRPS
being particular discriminative in the example with
long-range dependence and the ES faring best in the
example with a periodic component, there is no clear
ranking among the different scores. The MSE, the
score that corresponds to the VS-0.5, demonstrates
good discrimination ability in both examples. Its
preference over the other options is by no means im-
perative, but it seems to be a good compromise, and
thus a reasonable standard choice.
4. Evaluating multisite wind speed forecasts
We ﬁnally apply our score in a data example to
evaluate and compare statistically calibrated, proba-
bilistic forecasts of wind speeds at ﬁve major wind park
locations in the state of Colorado. Speciﬁcally, we
consider the period from 1 January to 31 December
2013, use 80-m wind speed forecasts from the second-
generation GEFS reforecast dataset ( Hamill et al.
2013) and the corresponding reanalyses for both cali-
bration and veriﬁcation. The reforecast ensemble has
11 members and was initialized once daily at 0000 UTC.
We study 80-m wind speed predictions with lead
times of 24, 48, and 72 h at the grid points that are
closest to
d Cedar Point Wind Farm (250 MW, operational since
2011);
d Cedar Creek Wind Farms I and II (550 MW, opera-
tional since 2007/10);
d Peetz Table Wind Energy Center (430 MW, opera-
tional since 2001/07);
d Colorado Green Wind Farm (162 MW, operational
since 2003); and
d Cheyenne Ridge Wind Project (under development,
project size 300–600 MW).
As explained above, the ensemble forecasts
f1s, ... , f11s, s 2 S , where S denotes the set of the ﬁve
wind park locations, can be interpreted as a sample from
the multivariate distribution that describes the simulta-
neous predictions. The raw model output, however, of-
ten suffers from systematic biases and typically fails
to fully represent prediction uncertainty ( Hamill and
Colucci 1997 ). To calibrate the marginal predictive
FIG. 6. Different scores that result from applying the ES, MAE, MSE, and MCRPS to the g0:5, ~w-transformed forecast and observation
vectors. The two left and right boxplots within each panel correspond to the experiments where the observation is generated according to
section 3c models (i) and (ii), respectively, with correct forecasts colored in violet and incorrect forecasts colored in dark blue.
1330 MONTHLY WEATHER REVIEW V OLUME 143
PDF page 11
distributions, we follow Thorarinsdottir and Gneiting
(2010) and ﬁt a heteroscedastic regression model to past
forecast–observation pairs that turns the ensemble mean
f s and the ensemble variance S2
s at location s into a
predictive truncated normal distribution,
Ys j f1s, ... , f11s ; N 0(as 1 bsf s, cs 1 dsS2
s ) , (7)
for the observed wind speed Ys at s. A separate model is
ﬁtted for each location, each forecast lead time, and each
month of the veriﬁcation period from 1 January to 31
December 2013. For each month, forecasts and obser-
vations from the same, the preceding, and the sub-
sequent month in the years 2010, 2011, and 2012 are used
as training data for the model ﬁtting procedure [for de-
tails about that procedure we refer toThorarinsdottir and
Gneiting (2010)]. Once the parameters as, bs, cs,a n d ds
for each month, location, and lead time are determined,
a predictive distribution for the day under consider-
ation can be obtained by plugging the corresponding
ensemble mean and variance into (7). Diagnostic plots
(not shown here) conﬁrm that the univariate probabi-
listic forecasts obtained in this way are calibrated (i.e.,
they are unbiased and represent the prediction uncertainty
adequately).
The postprocessing scheme just described only ad-
dresses the marginal distributions. In our particular ex-
ample, however, power network operators might be
interested in whether low wind speeds (and hence low
wind power production) at one wind park will be com-
pensated by higher wind speeds at the other wind parks,
or whether wind speeds will be low at all wind parks
simultaneously. To account for this multivariate aspect
of our prediction problem and address correlations be-
tween the forecasts at the different locations, we use the
ensemble copula coupling (ECC) technique ( Schefzik
et al. 2013 ), which turns the ﬁve marginal predictive
distributions back into an ensemble ~f 1s, ... , ~f 11s, s 2 S
that has the same rank correlation structure as the
original ensemble but calibrated margins. Speciﬁcally, if
Fs denotes the predictive, truncated normal CDF at lo-
cation s, calibrated ensemble forecasts are obtained via
~f 1s 5 F21
s
/C18 rs(1)
12
/C19
, ... , ~f 11s 5 F21
s
/C18 rs(11)
12
/C19
, s 2 S , (8)
where Fs
21 is the predictive q uantile function at s and
rs(k) 5 rank(fks), k 5 1, ... , 11. With other words, the
original forecasts are replaced by quantiles (this par-
ticular way of sampling is referred to as ECC-Q) of the
calibrated marginal distributions in such a way that
the ordering of the ensemble member forecasts re-
mains unchanged. In this way, the (ﬂow dependent) rank
correlation information of the raw GEFS ensemble is
preserved.
Does this preservation of rank correlations really
yield noticeably better multivariate forecasts than
a sampling scheme in which rs is a random perturbation
of the set f1, ... ,1 1 g (i.e., no spatial correlations) or
one in which rs is the identity (i.e., maximal spatial de-
pendence)? We compute those alternative, marginally
calibrated ensembles (‘‘random-Q,’’ ‘‘ordered-Q’’) as
well and use the ES, the VS-0.5, and the VS-1 to evaluate
and compare the corresponding multivariate wind speed
forecasts with those of the raw and ECC-Q ensemble.
Again, we use inverse distance weights for the VS- p
where distance is now the geographical distance (in
kilometers) between the wind farm locations. Since in
section 3 the empirical DSS turned out to be unreliable
for small ensemble sizes and the VS-2 was always less
discriminative than the VS-0.5 and VS-1, only the two
latter are considered here as alternatives to the ES. In
order to facilitate the comparison between the three
different scores, we turn them into skill scores with re-
spect to the raw ensemble. That is, instead of the energy
score ES* for method ‘‘*’’ we state the energy skill score
ESS* =1 2 ES*/ESens, which measures the increase in
predictive performance compared to the raw ensemble
(likewise for the variogram scores). All skill scores in
Table 1 agree that ECC-Q yields the most skillful,
multivariate probabilistic forecasts. The ordered-Q en-
semble, for which wind speeds are simultaneously low or
high at all locations, is less skillful than the uncalibrated
ensemble; the corresponding multivariate structure is
clearly inappropriate. The comparison between ECC-Q
and random-Q is more interesting, and conﬁrms the
above ﬁndings about the respective sensitivity of the ES
and the VS- p to miscalibration. The ESS yields a some-
what clearer distinction between the raw and the ECC-Q
ensemble, which differ in their marginal distribution,
but have the same rank correlations. The random-Q
TABLE 1. Skill scores of the ECC-Q, random-Q, and ordered-Q ensembles with respect to the raw ensemble.
Lead time 24 h Lead time 48 h Lead time 72 h
ESS VSS-0.5 VSS-1 ESS VSS-0.5 VSS-1 ESS VSS-0.5 VSS-1
ECC-Q 0.184 0.171 0.151 0.119 0.119 0.096 0.063 0.036 0.027
Random-Q 0.175 0.047 0.088 0.108 20.020 20.017 0.051 20.087 20.063
Ordered-Q 20.284 20.147 20.062 20.420 20.231 20.145 20.493 20.461 20.299
APRIL 2015 S C H E U E R E R A N D H A M I L L 1331
PDF page 12
ensemble, however, scores almost as well as the ECC-Q
ensemble, despite its doubtful assumption of spatial in-
dependence. Under the VS-0.5 and VS-1, on the contrary,
the random-Q ensemble fares distinctly worse than the
ECC-Q ensemble, and has even negative skill for lead
times larger than 24 h. Those two ensembles yield identi-
cal forecasts at each location individually, but their com-
ponents have different rank correlations. Again, the VS-p
can detect those differences more clearly.
5. Discussion
In their recent review on probabilistic forecasting,
Gneiting and Katzfuss (2014 , p. 146) note as one out of
eight key issues for future research that
‘‘There is a pressing need for the development of
decision-theoretically principled methods for the evalu-
ation of probabilistic forecasts of multivariate variables.’’
When the focus is on the correlation structure and the
mean and covariance matrix of the predictive distribu-
tion are given in closed form, the DSS is an excellent
choice. The examples in section 3 show, however, that
the usage of this score can be problematic when the
probabilistic forecasts are represented by an ensemble
of limited size, and empirical versions of the predictive
mean vector and covariance matrix have to be used. In
spite of being proper, the DSS can then lead to entirely
wrong conclusions about predictive performance,
which suggests that this scoring rule is far from being
fair in the sense of Fricker et al. (2013) .I nt h i sp a p e r ,
we have presented a new class of multivariate scores
based on powered differences between pairs of com-
ponents of the multivariate quantity, denoted as
variogram scores of order p (VS-p). In our simulation
studies the VS- p was also negatively affected by the
sampling error due to representing the predictive dis-
tribution by a (possibly small) ensemble. In the ma-
jority of cases, however, it led to the correct
conclusions about predictive performance, which
suggests that it is much closer to being fair than the
DSS. Moreover, it is more successful than the ES
in distinguishing forecasts with different correlation
structures. Three different choices of powers p were
studied for the VS- p, and it was found that the best
results are obtained with p 5 0:5, while p 5 2w a s
clearly suboptimal. Would a VS- p with p , 0:5h a v e
even better properties? At least for Gaussian pre-
dictive distributions, a square root transformation is
likely already the best choice since the distribution of
jXi 2 Xjj0:5 is almost perfectly symmetric and thus has
much better sampling properties than the strongly skewed
distribution that comes with the choicep 5 2( Cressie and
Hawkins 1980). If the predictive distribution itself is al-
ready skewed, however, then smaller powers may indeed
be favorable to obtain a near-symmetric distribution of
jXi 2 Xjjp.
In section 4 , we considered a data example with sta-
tistically postprocessed wind speed forecasts. Scoring
rules in general, and the VS- p in particular, may how-
ever also be useful diagnostic tools in the development
process of ensemble prediction systems. In the context
of data assimilation, for example, it is important that the
ensemble adequately represents the variances and co-
variances between different variables at different loca-
tions. Comparing different ensembles via scoring rules
rather than empirical covariances (averaged over a cer-
tain time period) has the advantage that the former
evaluate every time point separately and average the
scores rather than covariances. This is more adequate if
those covariances are ﬂow dependent. Moreover, if the
scores are normalized in a reasonable way (for the VS- p
this could be done by requiring that the weights sum to
one on each day), even the space dimension may change
over time, and averaging the corresponding scores
would still make sense. If the distribution of the ob-
servation errors is known, those can be taken into account
by simulating a sample /C15il, i 5 1, ... , d, l 5 1, ... , M of
such errors and adding them to the ensemble forecasts. The
empirical version of the VS-p then becomes
Sgp
(F, y) 5 /C229
d
i,j51
wij
 
jyi 2 yjjp 2 1
mM /C229
m
k51
/C229
M
l51
jf (k)
i 1 /C15il 2 f (k)
j 2 /C15jljp
!2
,
and by choosing M— the number of simulated observa-
tion error vectors—large enough, one can reduce at least
part of the additional variability that is introduced into
the score. It remains to be seen if the signal-to-noise
ratio in those applications is large enough for this score
to be still sufﬁciently discriminative.
W et h i n kt h a tt h ec l a s so fV S -p proposed here is
a useful contribution to address the above-mentioned
research issue of decision t heoretically principled
methods for multivariate forecast evaluation. It has
certain limitations, resulting from the fact that is not
strictly proper as discussed in section 2 . Given the
1332 MONTHLY WEATHER REVIEW V OLUME 143
PDF page 13
strong increase in the number of degrees of freedom
with the dimension of the quantity to be forecast, it is
unlikely, however, that there exists a single multivariate
score that serves all purposes. We strongly recommend
that several different scores be always considered before
drawing conclusions. Some of the limitations of the VS-p
can be addressed by studying the ES (which is more
sensitive to misspeciﬁcations of the predictive mean and
less affected by the ﬁnite representation of the predictive
distribution) or univariate scores for the marginal dis-
tributions alongside with our VS- p. Focusing on differ-
ences between components is probably the most natural,
but by no means the only possible transformation of the
multivariate quantity that leads to a multivariate score
that is sensitive to correlations between components. In
some applications, studying composite quantities like
minima, maxima, or averages over several locations or
lead times (Berrocal et al. 2007; Feldmann et al. 2015), or
indexes that involve multiple quantities ( Wilks 2014)i s
a natural way to turn multivariate quantities into uni-
variate ones that can be evaluated by standard univariate
scores. This way, speciﬁc (and practically relevant) as-
pects of the multivariate predictive distribution can be
evaluated, and this sort of veriﬁcation is another rec-
ommended supplement to general purpose multivariate
scores like the ES or the VS- p presented here.
Acknowledgments. The authors thank Tilmann
Gneiting, Martin Leutbecher, and two anonymous re-
viewers for useful discussions and comments on the
manuscript. This research was performed while the ﬁrst
author held a National Research Council Research
Associateship Award at NOAA’s Earth System Re-
search Laboratory. The publication was partially sup-
ported by a NOAA/Ofﬁce of Weather and Air Quality
(OWAQ) USWRP grant.
REFERENCES
Anderson, J. L., 1996: A method for producing and evaluating
probabilistic forecasts from ensemble model integrations.
J. Climate, 9, 1518–1530, doi:10.1175/1520-0442(1996)009,1518:
AMFPAE.2.0.CO;2.
Berrocal, V. J., A. E. Raftery, and T. Gneiting, 2007: Combining
spatial statistical and ensemble information in probabilistic
weather forecasts. Mon. Wea. Rev., 135, 1386–1402,
doi:10.1175/MWR3341.1.
Bruno, R., and G. Raspa, 1989: Geosta tistical characterization of
fractal models of surfaces. Geostatistics, M. Armstrong, Ed.,
Quantitative Geology and Geostatistics, Vol. 4, Springer,
77–89.
Buizza, R., P. L. Houtekamer, Z. Toth, G. Pellerin, M. Wei, and
Y. Zhu, 2005: A comparison of the ECMWF, MSC, and NCEP
global ensemble prediction systems. Mon. Wea. Rev., 133,
1076–1097, doi:10.1175/MWR2905.1.
Cressie, N., and D. M. Hawkins, 1980: Robust estimation of the
variogram I. Math. Geol., 12, 115–125, doi: 10.1007/
BF01035243.
——, and C. K. Wikle, 1998: The variance-based cross-variogram:
You can add apples and oranges. Math. Geol., 30, 789–799,
doi:10.1023/A:1021770324434 .
Dawid, A. P., and P. Sebastiani, 1999: Coherent dispersion cri-
teria for optimal experimental design. Ann. Stat., 27, 65–81,
doi:10.1214/aos/1018031101 .
Emery, X., 2005: Variograms of order v: A tool to validate
a bivariate distribution model. Math. Geol., 37, 163–181,
doi:10.1007/s11004-005-1307-4 .
Feldmann, K., M. Scheuerer, and T. L. Thorarinsdottir, 2015:
Spatial postprocessing of ensemble forecasts for temperature
using nonhomogeneous Gaussian regression. Mon. Wea. Rev.,
143, 955–971, doi:10.1175/MWR-D-14-00210.1.
Fricker, T. E., C. A. T. Ferro, and D. B. Stephenson, 2013: Three
recommendations for evaluating climate predictions. Meteor.
Appl., 20, 246–255, doi:10.1002/met.1409.
Gneiting, T., 2011: Making and evaluating point forecasts. J. Amer.
Stat. Assoc., 106, 746–762, doi:10.1198/jasa.2011.r10138.
——, and A. E. Raftery, 2007: Strictly proper scoring rules, pre-
diction, and estimation. J. Amer. Stat. Assoc., 102, 359–378,
doi:10.1198/016214506000001437.
——, and M. Katzfuss, 2014: Probabilistic forecasting. Ann. Rev. Stat.
Appl., 1, 125–151, doi:10.1146/annurev-statistics-062713-085831.
——, F. Balabdaoui, and A. E. Raftery, 2007: Probabilistic fore-
casts, calibration and sharpness. J. Roy. Stat. Soc., 69B, 243–
268, doi:10.1111/j.1467-9868.2007.00587.x.
——, L. I. Stanberry, E. P. Grimit, L. Held, and N. A. Johnson,
2008: Assessing probabilistic forecasts of multivariate
quantities, with an application to ensemble predictions
of surface winds. TEST, 17, 211–235, doi: 10.1007/
s11749-008-0114-x .
Hamill, T. M., 1999: Hypothesis tests for evaluating numerical
precipitation forecasts. Wea. Forecasting, 14, 155–167,
doi:10.1175/1520-0434(1999)014,0155:HTFENP.2.0.CO;2.
——, 2001: Interpretation of rank histograms for verifying en-
semble forecasts. Mon. Wea. Rev., 129, 550–560, doi:10.1175/
1520-0493(2001)129,0550:IORHFV.2.0.CO;2.
——, and S. J. Colucci, 1997: Veriﬁcation of Eta-RSM short-range
ensemble forecasts.Mon. Wea. Rev.,125, 1312–1327, doi:10.1175/
1520-0493(1997)125,1312:VOERSR.2.0.CO;2.
——, J. S. Whitaker, and C. Snyder, 2001: Distance-dependent
ﬁltering of background error covariance estimates in an en-
semble Kalman ﬁlter. Mon. Wea. Rev., 129, 2776–2790,
doi:10.1175/1520-0493(2001)129,2776:DDFOBE.2.0.CO;2.
——, C. Snyder, and J. S. Whitaker, 2003: Ensemble forecasts and
the properties of ﬂow-dependent analysis-error covariance.
Mon. Wea. Rev., 131, 1741–1758, doi:10.1175/2559.1.
——, G. T. Bates, J. S. Whitaker, D. R. Murray, M. Fiorino, T. J.
Galarneau Jr., Y. Zhu, and W. Lapenta, 2013: NOAA’s second-
generation global medium-range ensemble reforecast data-
set. Bull. Amer. Meteor. Soc., 94, 1553–1565, doi: 10.1175/
BAMS-D-12-00014.1 .
Hersbach, H., 2000: Decomposition of the continuous ranked
probability score for ensemble prediction systems. Wea. Fore-
casting, 15, 559–570, doi: 10.1175/1520-0434(2000)015,0559:
DOTCRP.2.0.CO;2.
Houtekamer, P. L., and H. L. Mitchell, 2001: A sequential en-
semble Kalman ﬁlter for atmospheric data assimilation. Mon.
Wea. Rev., 129, 123–137, doi:10.1175/1520-0493(2001)129,0123:
ASEKFF.2.0.CO;2.
APRIL 2015 S C H E U E R E R A N D H A M I L L 1333
PDF page 14
Jung, T., and M. Leutbecher, 2008: Scale-dependent veriﬁcation of
ensemble forecasts. Quart. J. Roy. Meteor. Soc., 134, 973–984,
doi:10.1002/qj.255.
Leutbecher, M., and T. N. Palmer, 2008: Ensemble forecasting.
J. Comput. Phys., 227, 3515–3539, doi:10.1016/j.jcp.2007.02.014.
Lewis, J. M., 2005: Roots of ensemble forecasting. Mon. Wea. Rev.,
133, 1865–1885, doi:10.1175/MWR2949.1.
Matérn, B., 1986: Spatial Variation. Lecture Notes in Statistics, Vol.
36, 2nd ed. Springer-Verlag, 151 pp.
Pinson, P., and R. Girard, 2012: Evaluating the quality of scenarios
of short-term wind power generation. Appl. Energy, 96, 12–20,
doi:10.1016/j.apenergy.2011.11.004.
——, and J. Tastu, 2013: Discrimination ability of the energy score.
Tech. Rep., Technical University of Denmark, 16 pp.
R o u l s t o n ,M .S . ,a n dL .A .S m i t h ,2 0 02: Evaluating probabilistic fore-
casts using information theory.Mon. Wea. Rev., 130, 1653–1660,
doi:10.1175/1520-0493(2002)130,1653:EPFUIT.2.0.CO;2.
Schefzik, R., T. L. Thorarinsdottir, and T. Gneiting, 2013: Un-
certainty quantiﬁcation in complex simulation models using
ensemble copula coupling. Stat. Sci., 28, 616–640, doi:10.1214/
13-STS443.
Smith, L. A., and J. A. Hansen, 2004: Extending the limits of ensemble
forecast veriﬁcation with the minimum spanning tree.Mon. Wea.
Rev., 132, 1522–1528, doi: 10.1175/1520-0493(2004)132,1522:
ETLOEF.2.0.CO;2.
Thorarinsdottir, T. L., and T. Gneiting, 2010: Probabilistic fore-
casts of wind speed: Ensemble model output statistics using
heteroskedastic censored regression. J. Roy. Stat. Soc., 173A,
371–388, doi:10.1111/j.1467-985X.2009.00616.x.
——, M. Scheuerer, and C. Heinz, 2015: Assessing the calibration
of high-dimensional ensemble forecasts using rank histograms.
J. Comput. Graph. Stat., doi:10.1080/10618600.2014.977447,i n
press.
Wilks, D. S., 2004: The minimum sp anning tree histogram as veriﬁ-
cation tool for multidimensional ensemble forecasts.Mon. Wea.
Rev., 132, 1329–1340, doi: 10.1175/1520-0493(2004)132,1329:
TMSTHA.2.0.CO;2.
——, 2014: Multivariate ensemble Model Output Statistics using
empirical copulas. Quart. J. Roy. Meteor. Soc., doi:10.1002/
qj.2414, in press.
Ziegel, J. F., and T. Gneiting, 2014: Copula calibration. Electron.
J. Stat., 8, 2619–2638, doi:10.1214/14-EJS964.
1334 MONTHLY WEATHER REVIEW V OLUME 143